---
title: "Dominant Dataset Selection Algorithms for Time-Series Data Based on Linear Transformation"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/paper-1
excerpt: 'With the explosive growth of time-series data, the scale of time-series data has already exceeds the conventional computation and storage capabilities in many applications. On the other hand, the information carried by time-series data has high redundancy due to the strong correlation between time-series data. In this paper, we propose the new dominant dataset selection algorithms to extract the dataset that is only a small dataset but can represent the kernel information carried by time-series data with the error rate less than {\epsilon}, where {\epsilon} can be arbitrarily small. We prove that the selection problem of the dominant dataset is an NP-complete problem. The affine transformation model is introduced to define the linear transformation function to ensure the selection function of dominant dataset with the constant time complexity O(1). Furthermore, the scanning selection algorithm with the time complexity O(n2) and the greedy selection algorithm with the time complexity O(n3) are respectively proposed to extract the dominant dataset based on the linear correlation between time-series data. The proposed algorithms are evaluated on the real electric power consumption data of a city in China. The experimental results show that the proposed algorithms not only reduce the size of kernel dataset but ensure the time-series data integrity in term of accuracy and efficiency.'
date: 2019-03-04
venue: 'IEEE Internet of Things Journal'
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/pdf/1903.00237'

---

# Abstart
With the explosive growth of time-series data, the scale of time-series data has already exceeds the conventional computation and storage capabilities in many applications. On the other hand, the information carried by time-series data has high redundancy due to the strong correlation between time-series data. In this paper, we propose the new dominant dataset selection algorithms to extract the dataset that is only a small dataset but can represent the kernel information carried by time-series data with the error rate less than {\epsilon}, where {\epsilon} can be arbitrarily small. We prove that the selection problem of the dominant dataset is an NP-complete problem. The affine transformation model is introduced to define the linear transformation function to ensure the selection function of dominant dataset with the constant time complexity O(1). Furthermore, the scanning selection algorithm with the time complexity O(n2) and the greedy selection algorithm with the time complexity O(n3) are respectively proposed to extract the dominant dataset based on the linear correlation between time-series data. The proposed algorithms are evaluated on the real electric power consumption data of a city in China. The experimental results show that the proposed algorithms not only reduce the size of kernel dataset but ensure the time-series data integrity in term of accuracy and efficiency.

## Introduction
With the popularity of smart devices and mobile phones, the time-series data (TSD) is widely generated by Internet of Things (IoT). The dynamical and rapid massive data generation in the form of TSD is highly timesensitive. Facing with the continuous arrival of TSD stream, the information processing systems need to efficiently extract the kernel data from massive data in real-time. The efficient data extraction from large-scale TSD has become an important issue in IoT industries. The conventional data extraction methods are generally based on the assumption of infinite computing and storage resources. For example, the approximate information extraction method using the summary data structure  and the dimensional decomposition/recovery methods mainly focus on reducing the time complexity of algorithms. However, these existing methods fail to be appropriate for TSD with the large-scale, low-value density, and strong correlation characteristics. Therefore, the more efficient data extraction methods are expected to process massive TSD.

## Definitions
* Dominant Dataset：Assuming that $$ X=\left\{x_{i} | x_{i} \in \mathbb{R}, 1 \leq i \leq n\right\} $$ is a finite time-series dataset,
and let $$ P = \{ {p_i}|{p_i} \in \mathbb{R},1 \leqslant i \leqslant k\} $$be another dataset, $$ P \subset X,|P| \ll |X|(k \leqslant n)$$. If there is a reduction function $$f$$ during the time period $$T$$ that can meet the requirement of $$f(P) \doteq {Y_P}$$ and 
$$X = {Y_P} \cup P$$, $$P$$ is defined as a dominant dataset of $$X$$ based on the function $$f$$.


[[Link]](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1903.00237)

